Hello and welcome to the Tevin Dickerson and Spencer Fisher presentation on the Salt Lake City Chargers. 



For our optimization project we created a model of electric vehicles driving along roads with Dynamic charging stations. We selected this project because there is increasing legislation and popularity for increasing the number of electric vehicles on the roads. There is a small and less time efficient electric vehicle charging infrastructure currently in existence and electric vehicle battery life is enhanced through the maintenance of a 75 to 25% charge capacity during its use. Our model specifically addresses the problem of implementing dynamic vehicle chargers into freeways. We selected freeways because there is a large traffic volume increasing the amount of charging that could be done during the Chargers lifespan. It is a primary roadway for longer road trips and for commuters, and large traffic during rush hour periods provides longer charging time for electronic vehicles in traffic. We selected Dynamic vehicle Chargers because these Chargers are capable of charging a vehicle while it is in motion. 

Our project had a large scope including a new coding language that needed to be learned called NetLogo which is ideal for this particular type of simulation but required a steep learning curve to be climbed prior to complete use. It required an average electric vehicle model including the charging rate for Chargers, the battery depletion rate, the battery capacity, and an average driver acceleration. It also required a model for a road including the distance between the Chargers, the number of lanes, the speed, and the vehicle density which varies between different points of day. Our specific Road model was developed from a model previously made for simulating traffic jams and providing a base for driving characteristics. We updated this model by adding charging notes, differing vehicle types, energy Dynamics for the vehicles, and traffic Dynamics for different times of day. For our Charging Node model we utilized a 15-ft patch of road which was modeled in our net logo software. these patches in our simulation could be placed next to each other, could be set at different distances, and could also have a variable charging rate. The maximum charging rate we could find in documentation was a 200kW charger. For our road model we also included multiple vehicle types, averages and distributions of user accelerations and decelerations, as well as distributions of top speeds versus speed limits, which we utilize to model different drivers and different vehicle Behavior. we also had two different types of vehicles: Electric Vehicles which were represented by a car shape, and gas-powered vehicles which were represented by a truck shape. we also built into our model a parameter to vary the percentage of electric vehicles on the road with one electric vehicle measuring the amount of mileage gained from the charging node which was represented in our model as a red car. for our simulations we assumed approximately 20% of vehicles on the road were electric vehicles.



